STARDATE 48579.4.
CAPTAIN'S LOG,
THE CREW HAS BEEN SCANNING
CONSTANTLY FOR ANOMALIES
SHORTEN OUR JOURNEY HOME.
THAT MIGHT HELP US
ENSIGN KIM HAS REPORTED
AN EXCITING DISCOVERY--
WHICH MAY BE A WORMHOLE.
A SUBSPACE DISTURBANCE
LET'S SEE WHAT YOU HAVE,
MR. KIM.
THERE. IT'S REGISTERING
ONLY ON SUBSPACE BANDS.
ON LONG-RANGE SENSORS YET.
WE DON'T EVEN HAVE IT
VERTERON EMANATIONS.
TUNNELING SECONDARY PARTICLES.
IT CERTAINLY LOOKS
LIKE A WORMHOLE.
BUT IS IT STABLE ENOUGH
FOR US TO ENTER,
WHERE DOES IT LEAD?
AND IF IT IS,
THERE IS, OF COURSE,
A 75% CHANCE
A WORMHOLE WILL NOT LEAD
TO THE ALPHA QUADRANT.
VERY TRUE, BUT YOU CAN ALSO SAY
IT WILL. THOSE AREN'T BAD ODDS.
THERE'S A ONE-IN-FOUR CHANCE
ANY ANALYSIS
YET, ENSIGN?
WE'RE TOO FAR AWAY.
WITHIN 1,000 KILOMETERS
WE'D HAVE TO BE
TO GET A DETAILED
ANALYSIS.
SIGNIFICANT COURSE CHANGE.
BUT THAT WOULD MEAN A
WELL, MR. KIM
IF THERE'S EVEN THE POSSIBILITY
OF FINDING A WORMHOLE
I THINK WE CAN AFFORD A DETOUR.
LIEUTENANT...
INPUT THE COORDINATES
AND CHANGE COURSE.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
AND MAY I SUGGEST
IF THIS WORKS
WE PETITION THE FEDERATION
ASTRONOMICAL COMMITTEE
TO OFFICIALLY DESIGNATE THIS
"THE HARRY KIM WORMHOLE."
THE COORDINATES OF THE WORMHOLE.
CAPTAIN, WE'RE APPROACHING
ON SCREEN.
Janeway:
IN VISUAL RANGE?
ARE WE
AFFIRMATIVE, CAPTAIN,
AND THE ANOMALY
IS STILL REGISTERING
ON SUBSPACE BANDS.
SENSORS ALSO INDICATE
IT'S THERE.
MAGNIFY.
INCREASE TO HIGHEST
MAGNIFICATION.
IF THAT'S A WORMHOLE,
IT MUST BE
THE SMALLEST ONE
ON RECORD.
MR. KIM,
ARE YOU ABLE TO ANALYZE IT?
VIRTUALLY MICROSCOPIC.
AYE, CAPTAIN. IT'S
30 CENTIMETERS IN DIAMETER.
THE APERTURE IS ONLY ABOUT
I GUESS IT'S A LITTLE TOO SMALL
FOR US TO FLY THROUGH.
HOWEVER... IT MIGHT
BE LARGE ENOUGH
TO ACT AS A CONDUIT
FOR A MESSAGE.
THAT'S RIGHT.
A COMPRESSED DATA TRANSMISSION
IT COULD CARRY
TO FEDERATION SPACE IN MINUTES.
WE STILL HAVE TO FIND OUT
NEAR THE ALPHA QUADRANT.
IF IT GOES ANYWHERE
ITS SUBSPACE BEARING?
CAN YOU TRACE
DIRECTIONAL READINGS AT ALL.
I CAN'T GET ANY
IS TOO SMALL.
THE APERTURE
WE LAUNCH A MICRO-PROBE
I RECOMMEND
INTO THE WORMHOLE.
AGREED. DO IT, LIEUTENANT.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
WE'RE RECEIVING
TELEMETRY.
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE ANY WORMHOLE
I'VE EVER STUDIED.
MICROSCOPIC GRAVITATIONAL EDDIES
EXTREMELY CONSTRICTED
SPATIAL DIMENSIONS...
THE PATHWAY IS BARELY WIDER
THAN THE PROBE ITSELF.
I THINK WHAT WE'RE SEEING
IN AN ADVANCED STATE OF DECAY.
IS A WORMHOLE
MUST BE ANCIENT.
PROBABLY BEEN COLLAPSING
FOR CENTURIES.
DOES THAT MEAN WE CAN'T SEND
A MESSAGE THROUGH IT?
NO. I CAN DO IT.
MAYBE IT'LL TAKE LONGER
TO GET THROUGH
STILL STABLE ENOUGH
BUT THE WORMHOLE'S
TO CARRY A TRANSMISSION.
ANY IDEA YET WHERE THAT MESSAGE
WOULD END UP, ENSIGN?
THE VERTERON EXIT VECTOR.
I'LL TRY EXTRAPOLATING
NO, I CAN'T GET IT.
THERE'S A STRANGE
PHASE VARIANCE
IN THE RADIATION STREAM.
UNTIL THE PROBE EXITS.
WE'LL HAVE TO WAIT
THAT SHOULDN'T TAKE LONG.
DISTORTED ENERGY READING.
CAPTAIN, I'M GETTING A
THE PROBE'S TELEMETRY
HAS CHANGED.
IT'S STUCK.
STUCK?
GRAVITATIONAL EDDY
IT'S MIRED IN A
AND BECAUSE THE WORMHOLE'S
IN A STATE OF COLLAPSE,
INCREDIBLY DENSE.
THOSE EDDIES ARE
WILL NEVER BREAK FREE, CAPTAIN,
THAT PROBE
AND WE HAVE NO WAY OF FINDING
OUT WHERE THE WORMHOLE ENDS.
LET'S GIVE IT SOME TIME.
MAYBE IT WILL WORK ITSELF LOOSE.
CAPTAIN.
WHAT IS IT, ENSIGN?
OUR PROBE WAS JUST SCANNED.
THERE'S...
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORMHOLE.
THERE'S SOMEBODY ON
A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO.
IT STARTED ACTING UP
I'VE BEEN WORKING OUT
IN THE GYM.
MAYBE I OVERDID IT.
IS IT SORE HERE?
YES.
LOCALIZED TENDERNESS
TO THE ULNAR BONE,
NO EPIDERMAL DAMAGE,
MODERATE EDEMA.
THE POSSIBLE DIAGNOSES?
WHAT ARE
STRAINED LIGAMENT,
EPICONDYLITIS,
AND HAIRLINE FRACTURE.
TORN MUSCLE,
THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
THE MATERIAL YOU GAVE ME.
I'VE STUDIED ALL
I'M READY FOR MORE.
GOOD.
THERE'S A GREAT DEAL MORE
FOR YOU TO LEARN.
THIS IS A SMALL STRESS FRACTURE.
THE TRICORDER INDICATES
CAN THIS GUY DO EVERYTHING
A REAL DOCTOR DOES?
YES, HE CAN.
AND DIRECT THE BEAM HERE.
ACTIVATE IT,
THAT'S IT.
NOT QUITE SO FAST.
IF I HAD TO GET TREATMENT
FOR SOMETHING SERIOUS--
IF I NEEDED SURGERY,
FOR INSTANCE--
WOULD HE BE PERFORMING IT?
AND QUITE EXPERTLY TOO.
OF COURSE,
I DON'T KNOW.
I'D HAVE TO THINK TWICE
ABOUT THAT.
FINE. AND IF YOU
WERE LUCKY,
YOU WOULDN'T DIE
ON THE TABLE
MAKING UP YOUR MIND.
WHILE YOU WERE
THAT SHOULD DO IT.
HOW DOES IT FEEL?
NOT BAD.
THANKS.
DOCTOR, DID
YOU NOTICE
OFFICER TREATED YOU?
HOW RUDELY THAT
NO MORE SO THAN MOST.
ACT THAT WAY TOO?
YOU MEAN OTHERS
I'VE BECOME ACCUSTOMED
LET'S JUST SAY
LIKE A HYPOSPRAY.
TO BEING TREATED
NOW, HERE'S SOME MATERIAL
ON FIRST AID FOR BURNS.
DOCTOR, I THINK I'D LIKE TO DO
MORE THAN STUDY FIRST AID.
I'D BE INTERESTED
IN KNOWING MORE
ABOUT ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY.
YOU'RE INTELLECTUALLY CURIOUS.
I LIKE THAT.
THESE DEAL WITH HUMAN ANATOMY
AND PHYSIOLOGY
BUT THEY WEREN'T WRITTEN
FOR THE LAYMAN.
THEY'RE QUITE TECHNICAL.
I UNDERSTAND.
I'LL DO MY BEST.
APPRECIATE YOUR HELP.
AND I REALLY
WE'VE ANALYZED THE DATA.
SO FAR, OUR SENSORS
HAVE DETECTED
FOUR SEPARATE SCANS
OF THE MICROPROBE--
A PROGRESSIVELY NARROWER BAND.
EACH ONE ON
SOMEONE ON THE OTHER END
OF THAT WORMHOLE
IS DEFINITELY INTERESTED
IN THAT PROBE.
WE CANNOT PRECLUDE
THE POSSIBILITY
A MICROSCOPIC ENTITY
THAT THERE IS
WITHIN THE WORMHOLE
CURIOUS ABOUT AN INTRUDER.
THAT'S POSSIBLE,
BUT YOU'D THINK
OUR PROBE
WOULD HAVE DETECTED
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
WHAT'S THE CONDITION
OF THE PROBE NOW?
I'VE BEEN MONITORING IT
FROM ENGINEERING.
IT'S STILL IMBEDDED IN
THE GRAVITATIONAL EDDY
BUT WITHIN 72 HOURS,
IT WILL BE CRUSHED.
BUT UNTIL THEN,
TO TRANSMIT TELEMETRY.
IT SHOULD CONTINUE
IF WE'RE READING SCANS
FROM THE OTHER SIDE,
IT'S POSSIBLE THE PROBE
IS ACTING AS A RELAY.
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO USE IT
IF THAT'S TRUE,
TO TRANSMIT A MESSAGE
TO WHOEVER IS EXECUTING
THE SCAN.
SUBSPACE COMMUNICATIONS BAND
YES. I CAN MODIFY OUR
TO ACCEPT THE PROBE
AS A BOOSTER.
LET'S TRY IT, MR. KIM.
I'LL GIVE YOU A HAND.
I FEAR MR. KIM'S EXUBERANCE
MAY TURN INTO AN EQUALLY
INTENSE DISAPPOINTMENT
IF HIS EFFORTS
PROVE IN VAIN.
BUT I'D RATHER ASSUME
YOU MAY BE RIGHT,
TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
THAT HE'S GOING
TO THE COMMUNICATIONS BANDWIDTH.
OKAY, I'VE BOOSTED POWER
NOW, ALL WE HAVE TO DO
THE SIGNAL GENERATOR
IS RECONFIGURE
THE PROBE'S LONG-RANGE SENSORS.
SO IT'S COMPATIBLE WITH
I'M ON IT.
JUST A FEW MINUTES MORE.
THIS HAS TO WORK.
TO PEOPLE BACK HOME
IT'LL MEAN SO MUCH
AND HEADED FOR FEDERATION SPACE.
TO KNOW WE'RE ALIVE
WE HAVEN'T BEEN
GONE THAT LONG.
PEOPLE WON'T GIVE
UP ON US SO SOON.
THEY PROBABLY JUST
THINK WE'RE LOST.
TO BE HARD ON MY FOLKS.
IT'S STILL GOING
I ALWAYS CALLED THEM
ONCE A WEEK
MY TRAINING MISSIONS.
EVEN WHEN I WAS ON
I'VE NEVER BEEN OUT OF CONTACT
FOR SO LONG.
WELL, IT IS GOING
TO WORK, STARFLEET
SO PRETTY SOON THEY'RE GOING
TO KNOW YOU'RE ALL RIGHT.
HOW ABOUT YOU?
ANY FAMILY?
I HAVEN'T SEEN MY FATHER
SINCE I WAS 5.
HE AND MY MOTHER
SEPARATED.
HE WENT BACK TO EARTH,
AND THAT WAS THE LAST
I SAW OF HIM.
AND YOUR MOM?
THE KLINGON HOME WORLD.
I THINK SHE'S ON
YOU THINK?
WE DIDN'T GET ALONG VERY WELL.
OKAY.
THE SIGNAL GENERATOR
SHOULD BE TUNED
LONG-RANGE SENSORS.
TO THE PROBE'S
ISN'T THERE ANYONE BACK HOME
WHO'D BE WORRIED ABOUT YOU?
ARE AS CLOSE A FAMILY
THE MAQUIS
AS I'VE EVER HAD.
ARE HERE ON THE SHIP
MOST OF MY FRIENDS
SO... NO.
THERE'S NO ONE BACK HOME
WHO'S GOING TO CARE
ONE WAY OR ANOTHER
WHETHER I'M ALIVE.
WE'RE READY TO TRANSMIT.
ENGINEERING TO BRIDGE.
JANEWAY HERE.
We have a communications link
with the micro-probe.
a preliminary test signal--
We're going to try sending
of sub-harmonic pulses.
a series
THEY STAND THE BEST CHANCE
OF TRANSMISSION
THROUGH THE WORMHOLE.
Acknowledged.
Aye, Captain.
PROCEED.
I'M READING TRANSMISSION
Chakotay:
OF THE TEST SIGNAL.
THE PROBE HAS RECEIVED IT
AND RELAYED IT.
IF THE SIGNAL REACHES SOMEBODY?
HOW WILL WE KNOW
IS IF THAT SOMEBODY ANSWERS.
THE ONLY WAY...
THERE'S NO RESPONSE.
IT'S TOO SOON.
REMEMBER, WE HAVE NO IDEA
REACH THE OTHER SIDE.
HOW LONG IT TAKES TO
ARE YOU READING ANYTHING,
MR. TUVOK?
NEGATIVE, CAPTAIN.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT WOULD
SUGGEST A RESPONSE.
RECEIVES OUR SIGNAL
EVEN IF SOMEONE
TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO RETURN IT.
IT MIGHT TAKE THEM SOME TIME
YOU'RE RIGHT.
CONTINUE TRANSMITTING.
JANEWAY TO KIM.
Aye, Captain.
SHOULD WE KEEP IT UP?
HOW LONG
Until I tell you otherwise.
YOU HAVE THE BRIDGE, COMMANDER.
CAPTAIN.
MR. TUVOK.
I'M GETTING SOMETHING, CAPTAIN.
I'M GETTING IT, TOO.
RELAYED THROUGH THE PROBE.
A SUBSPACE SIGNAL
BEING TRANSMITTED
THAT SIGNAL'S
FREQUENCY AND AMPLITUDE
EXACTLY THE SAME
AS OUR SIGNAL.
IT'S A RESPONSE.
SOMEONE RECEIVED
OUR TRANSMISSION
AND SENT ONE BACK,
ORIGINATED IN THE...
AND THEIR SIGNAL
ALPHA QUADRANT.
CAPTAIN'S LOG--SUPPLEMENTAL.
ENCOURAGED BY HIS SUCCESS
IN TRANSMITTING A SIGNAL
TO THE ALPHA QUADRANT,
MR. KIM IS INVESTIGATING
OF ESTABLISHING A VOICE LINK
THE POSSIBILITY
THE OTHER END OF THE WORMHOLE.
WITH WHOEVER IS AT
( door chimes )
COME IN.
KES, THIS IS A SURPRISE.
AM I INTERRUPTING?
NOT AT ALL.
I WAS JUST GOING TO HAVE
A CUP OF SOUP.
WOULD YOU LIKE ANYTHING?
WITH A TOUCH OF PEAR, PLEASE.
SPINACH JUICE
TOM PARIS INTRODUCED ME TO IT.
IT'S VERY NUTRITIOUS.
I'M SURE.
COMPUTER, ONE SPINACH JUICE
WITH A TOUCH OF PEAR
OF VEGETABLE BOUILLON.
AND ONE CUP
WHAT CAN I DO FOR YOU?
A MEMBER OF THE CREW
IF THERE WERE
WEREN'T BEING MET
WHOSE NEEDS
TO KNOW ABOUT IT?
WOULD YOU WANT
OF COURSE.
AND NEELIX FEEL
KES, DO YOU
ARE BEING IGNORED?
THAT YOUR NEEDS
OF COURSE NOT.
WE'RE VERY HAPPY HERE.
I'M REFERRING
TO THE DOCTOR.
THE DOCTOR.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND
WHY PEOPLE TREAT HIM
THE WAY THEY DO.
HOW DO PEOPLE
TREAT HIM?
HE DOESN'T EXIST.
AS THOUGH
WHILE HE'S STANDING RIGHT THERE.
THEY TALK ABOUT HIM
THEY IGNORE HIM,
THEY INSULT HIM.
WELL, AS A MATTER OF FACT,
I'VE BEEN HEARING
THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE COIN.
MANY OF THE CREW HAVE COMPLAINED
THAT THE DOCTOR
IS BRUSQUE, EVEN RUDE.
ANY BEDSIDE MANNER.
THAT HE LACKS
WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
REPROGRAMMING HIM.
YOU CAN DO THAT?
IT DOESN'T SEEM RIGHT.
KES, HE'S ONLY
A HOLOGRAM.
HE'S YOUR MEDICAL OFFICER.
HE'S ALIVE.
NO, HE'S NOT.
HE'S COMMUNICATIVE.
HE'S SELF-AWARE.
HE HAS THE ABILITY TO LEARN.
BECAUSE HE'S BEEN PROGRAMMED
TO DO THAT.
SO BECAUSE HE'S A HOLOGRAM,
HE DOESN'T HAVE TO BE TREATED
WITH RESPECT
OR ANY CONSIDERATION
AT ALL?
VERY WELL.
I'LL LOOK INTO IT.
THANK YOU, CAPTAIN.
ONLINE IN A COUPLE MINUTES.
OKAY, WE'LL BE READY TO GO
I'M STILL WORRIED ABOUT THE
GRAVITATIONAL INTERFERENCE.
I DON'T THINK THE
COVARIANT ISOLATOR
WILL BE EFFECTIVE WITH
A VOCAL TRANSMISSION.
THE NARROW BAND FILTER.
LET'S TRY INVERTING
PROGRESS REPORT,
ENSIGN.
I THINK WE'RE READY TO
GIVE IT A TRY.
BUT WE'RE PUSHING THROUGH
SOME PRETTY HEAVY
GRAVITATIONAL INTERFERENCE.
I CAN'T GUARANTEE THE CLARITY
OF THE TRANSMISSION.
WHAT HAPPENS.
LET'S SEE
THIS IS CAPTAIN KATHRYN JANEWAY
OF THE FEDERATION STARSHIP
VOYAGER.
DO YOU READ?
( static )
I'LL NARROW THE FILTER BAND-PASS
SOME MORE.
TRY AGAIN, CAPTAIN.
OF THE FEDERATION SHIP VOYAGER.
THIS IS KATHRYN JANEWAY
IS ANYONE RECEIVING
THIS COMMUNICATION?
( static )
...vessel...
NARROW THE BAND-PASS
A LITTLE MORE.
TRY AGAIN, CAPTAIN.
THIS IS JANEWAY.
YOUR LAST TRANSMISSION.
PLEASE REPEAT
( static )
...of the cargo vessel...
...Quadrant...
...your location.
WE'RE STILL TRYING
CARGO VESSEL,
YOUR LAST TRANSMISSION.
TO CLEAR UP
ONE MORE TIME.
PLEASE REPEAT
of the cargo vessel Talvath.
The captain
Location Alpha Quadrant,
Sector 1385.
What is your location?
WE ARE IN THE DELTA QUADRANT,
BUT SINCE THIS QUADRANT
HASN'T BEEN CHARTED,
OUR EXACT LOCATION.
I CAN'T SPECIFY
Please confirm.
You said Delta Quadrant?
CORRECT.
In a Federation starship?
YES. WE WERE ON A MISSION,
INTO THIS QUADRANT.
AND WE GOT PULLED
Pulled in? How?
IT'S A COMPLICATED STORY.
PLEASE, IF YOU WOULD JUST
TRY DECONSTRUCTING
OUR HAILING FREQUENCY
THE PHASE SHIFT OF
YOU COULD VERIFY.
still in the Alpha Quadrant.
You are undoubtedly
What are your coordinates?
I AM TELLING YOU THE TRUTH.
I ASSURE YOU
WE ARE IN THE DELTA QUADRANT,
70,000 LIGHT YEARS FROM YOU.
You are obviously lying.
This is preposterous.
the communication.
I am terminating
NO. NO, WAIT.
KIM, HAIL HIM AGAIN.
NO RESPONSE, CAPTAIN.
WHY WOULD HE HAVE BROKEN OFF
TRANSMISSION?
PERHAPS I CAN OFFER
AN EXPLANATION.
OF HIS TRANSMISSION INDICATES
THE COMLINK SIGNATURE
THE MESSAGE ORIGINATED
FROM A ROMULAN SHIP.
FURTHER, THERE ARE NO
KNOWN SHIPPING LANES
IN THE SECTOR HE IDENTIFIED.
GIVEN THE PRECISE CALIBRATION
OF HIS SIGNAL, I WOULD SUGGEST
ONBOARD A SCIENCE VESSEL.
THAT HE IS IN FACT
TO BE A CARGO CAPTAIN?
WHY WOULD HE PRETEND
IF HE'S ENGAGED IN SOME KIND
OF SECRET RESEARCH
TO CONCEAL THAT FACT.
HE MIGHT WANT
PRECISELY, WHEN WE CLAIMED
TO BE TRANSMITTING
FROM THE DELTA QUADRANT--
SO FAR AS HE KNOWS--
AN IMPOSSIBILITY
WE WERE FEDERATION SPIES.
HE MAY HAVE FEARED
JUST OUR LUCK. WE RAISE ONE SHIP
FROM THE ALPHA QUADRANT
TO BE ROMULAN.
AND IT HAS
STILL HAS THE ABILITY
THAT ROMULAN
TO GET A MESSAGE TO STARFLEET.
MR. KIM
HAIL THE TALVATH
REPEATEDLY.
YOU RE-ESTABLISH CONTACT.
CALL ME THE MINUTE
COMMANDER, YOU HAVE
THE BRIDGE.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
COMPUTER, INITIATE EMERGENCY
MEDICAL HOLOGRAPHIC PROGRAM.
PLEASE STATE THE NATURE OF
THE MEDICAL EMERGENCY.
THERE IS NO EMERGENCY,
DOCTOR.
WELL... THAT'S GOOD.
I WAS RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF PREPARING A CULTURE
TO TEST LIEUTENANT HARGROVE
ENSIGN KYOTO DEACTIVATED ME.
FOR ARETHEAN FLU WHEN
I'M SURE SHE DIDN'T REALIZE
YOU WERE BUSY.
WHAT IS IT YOU WANT,
CAPTAIN?
ACTUALLY, I THOUGHT
WE MIGHT JUST...
TALK FOR A MOMENT.
ABOUT WHAT?
DOCTOR, YOU WERE ORIGINALLY
PROGRAMMED TO SERVE
IN A LIMITED FASHION
DURING AN EMERGENCY.
NOW YOU'RE BEING ASKED
TO DO MUCH MORE.
THAT'S CERTAINLY TRUE.
I'M PROVIDING FULL-TIME
MEDICAL SERVICE
FOR THE ENTIRE SHIP'S CREW
FUNCTIONING AS BOTH
DOCTOR AND NURSE
INSTRUCTOR AS WELL.
AND NOW AS AN
YOU DON'T HAVE THE LUXURY
OF THINKING OF YOURSELF
MEDICAL PROGRAM ANYMORE.
AS AN EMERGENCY
YOU'VE BECOME A FULL-FLEDGED
MEMBER OF THE CREW.
I SEE.
THAT I BE REPROGRAMMED?
ARE YOU SUGGESTING
NO.
I'M ASKING IF THERE'S
ANYTHING I CAN DO...
TO HELP YOU.
HELP ME?
IF THERE'S ANYTHING
YOU NEED OR WANT
I'D LIKE TO SEE
THAT YOU GET IT.
WHAT I'D LIKE IS TO BE TURNED
OFF WHEN PEOPLE LEAVE.
WITH ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO DO.
I SPEND HOURS HERE
WHEN SOMEONE DOES REMEMBER
TO DEACTIVATE ME,
THEY DO SO WITHOUT ASKING
IF IT'S CONVENIENT.
IT'S EXTREMELY IRRITATING.
WHAT IF I GAVE YOU CONTROL...
DEACTIVATION SEQUENCE?
OVER YOUR
I BEG YOUR PARDON?
WE CAN MAKE IT POSSIBLE
I'M SURE
TO TURN YOURSELF OFF
FOR YOU
BEING TURNED OFF.
OR TO PREVENT
I... I MIGHT LIKE THAT.
I'LL HAVE SOMEONE
LOOK INTO IT.
ANYTHING ELSE?
I'M NOT SURE.
I'LL HAVE TO GIVE IT
SOME THOUGHT.
YOU DO THAT.
Kim to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY HERE.
Captain, we've got him back--
the Romulan.
GOOD WORK.
PUT HIM THROUGH TO MY QUARTERS.
THIS IS KATHRYN JANEWAY.
This is the cargo vessel
Talvath.
THANK YOU FOR ANSWERING
OUR HAIL, CAPTAIN.
WHAT IS YOUR NAME?
HOW MAY I ADDRESS YOU?
I'd prefer not to give my name.
VERY WELL.
YOU MUST HAVE BEEN SKEPTICAL
I UNDERSTAND THAT
WHEN I TOLD YOU WHERE WE ARE.
I HOPE YOU'VE BEEN ABLE
TO VERIFY OUR POSITION.
My analysis of your hailing
frequency seems to indicate
in the Delta Quadrant,
that it originates
but I am not precluding
the possibility
that you've been able to create
that illusion somehow.
TO WHAT END?
I'm not sure, but that doesn't
negate the possibility.
HOW CAN I ASSURE YOU
OF MY TRUTHFULNESS?
you're a Federation ship.
You say
Are you a Starfleet vessel?
YES, WE ARE.
in the Delta Quadrant?
And your mission
OUR MISSION WAS ORIGINALLY
IN THE ALPHA QUADRANT.
WE WERE PULLED AGAINST OUR WILL
TO OUR PRESENT LOCATION.
NOW WE'RE TRYING TO GET HOME.
Aren't you in fact
Starfleet spies
on a surveillance mission?
CAPTAIN, I UNDERSTAND
YOUR CONCERN.
NATURALLY, THE ROMULAN EMPIRE
SPYING ON ITS SCIENCE VESSELS
DOESN'T WANT STARFLEET
LIGHT YEARS FROM ROMULAN SPACE
BUT SINCE WE'RE 70,000
TO STARFLEET WOULD TAKE YEARS
AND A SUBSPACE MESSAGE
I THINK YOU HAVE TO ADMIT
THAT WE CAN'T BE MUCH
OF A THREAT TO YOU.
YOU HAVE NOTHING
TO FEAR FROM US.
Soothing words, Captain,
but they are only words.
IF WE WERE SPIES...
WHAT I'M GOING TO ASK YOU NOW.
WE WOULDN'T BE ASKING
WE HAVE NO WAY OF COMMUNICATING
WITH STARFLEET...
WITH OUR FRIENDS AND FAMILIES.
WE'RE HOPING YOU MIGHT BE ABLE
TO RELAY A MESSAGE FOR US.
OUR CREW IS NOT LARGE.
A SHORT, PERSONAL MESSAGE.
EACH OF THEM COULD WRITE
THEM ALL BEFORE PASSING THEM ON.
YOU'D BE WELCOME TO READ
AND I THINK YOU'D BE CONVINCED
THAT THEY'RE NOTHING MORE
THAN THE HEARTFELT WORDS
OF SOME...
VERY LONELY PEOPLE.
it would ease my apprehension
Captain...
if I could see that you are
who you say you are.
I have a signal amplifier
on board.
to reconfigure the protocols
I've been working
to penetrate the radiation
stream of the wormhole.
I think it might be possible
a visual link between us.
to establish
I HAVE NO OBJECTION.
WHEN THAT'S DONE...
WILL YOU HELP US?
I make no promises.
one step at a time.
Let us proceed
Have your officers contact me
in order to attempt
the visual link.
Good night.
GOOD NIGHT.
WE'RE READY TO TRY A VISUAL LINK
WITH THE ROMULAN SHIP, CAPTAIN.
WE DIDN'T HAVE ANY TROUBLE
GOOD WORK.
CONFIGURING THE PROTOCOLS.
BUT THAT PHASE VARIANCE
IN THE RADIATION STREAM
GAVE US A FEW PROBLEMS.
TORRES IS GOING TO BALANCE IT
MANUALLY FROM ENGINEERING.
THE COMMUNICATIONS
OKAY, WE'VE GOT
FREQUENCY LOCKED IN.
ON SCREEN.
I presume you are
Captain Janeway.
YES.
TO THANK YOU, CAPTAIN,
I WANT
FOR MAINTAINING CONTACT
WITH US.
IT MEANS A GREAT DEAL
TO ME AND TO MY CREW.
with this class of ship.
I am not familiar
BUT IT ISN'T CLASSIFIED.
IT'S NEW,
I'M A LITTLE SURPRISED
YOUR INTELLIGENCE
HASN'T PROVIDED YOU
WITH INFORMATION.
for over a year, Captain,
I've been at space
to the latest intelligence.
and am not privy
I'm sure that our operatives
have provided the government
with the detailed information
about your new ship.
NO DOUBT.
CAPTAIN, HAVE YOU BEEN ABLE
WITH YOUR GOVERNMENT
TO COMMUNICATE
ABOUT SENDING
OUR MESSAGES?
I have.
the matter under advisement.
They've promised to take
I SEE.
THEY WILL HAVE AN ANSWER?
AND WHEN DO YOU THINK
to predict the timetable
It is impossible
of the Romulan Senate.
When they've made
their decision,
I will hear from them.
WE DON'T HAVE THE LUXURY
OF A GREAT DEAL OF TIME.
MY OFFICERS ARE PREDICTING THAT
THE PROBE WILL BECOME INOPERABLE
IN THE NEXT 48 HOURS.
a low-ranking scientist
Captain, I am
a minor functionary.
to tell the Romulan Senate
It is not my place
decision-making process.
to speed up their
YOU SAID YOU'VE BEEN IN SPACE
FOR OVER A YEAR.
DO YOU HAVE ANY FAMILY?
Yes.
I ASSUME THEY'RE NOT
WITH YOU IN SPACE.
My wife... and my daughter
are on Romulus.
A DAUGHTER.
HOW OLD IS SHE?
She is... seven months.
THEN YOU'VE NEVER SEEN HER.
To my sorrow, no.
She will be two years old
before I get back.
YOU MUST MISS YOUR FAMILY
VERY MUCH.
I knew when I accepted
this assignment
that there would be
a price to pay.
how high that price would be.
Perhaps I didn't realize
CAPTAIN...
HAS LEFT BEHIND FRIENDS, FAMILY
EVERY ONE OF US ON THIS SHIP
LOVED ONES.
WE MAY NOT SEE THEM AGAIN
FOR YEARS...
MAYBE NEVER.
SO WE CAN ALL UNDERSTAND
HOW LONELY YOU MUST BE.
SURELY YOU CAN UNDERSTAND
OUR FEELINGS AS WELL.
FOR ANY EFFORTS YOU MIGHT MAKE
WE WOULD BE DEEPLY GRATEFUL
TO PERSUADE YOUR GOVERNMENT
TO SEND OUR MESSAGES.
I cannot guarantee success,
but I will try to persuade
their decision quickly...
my superiors to make
and positively.
THANK YOU.
I will contact you again.
ASSUME HE'S GOING
TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
COMMANDER, LET'S
TO PREPARE PERSONAL MESSAGES
TELL THE CREW
AND HAVE THEM READY
WITHIN THE HOUR.
WITH PLEASURE, CAPTAIN.
CAPTAIN, I HAVE TO TALK TO YOU.
GO AHEAD, TORRES.
NO! I MEAN, IN PRIVATE.
I THINK THIS WILL WORK,
CAPTAIN,
BUT I DIDN'T WANT TO BRING IT UP
IN FRONT OF THE CREW.
TO GET THEIR HOPES UP
IT WOULDN'T BE RIGHT
IN CASE IT DOESN'T WORK.
ALTHOUGH, I THINK IT WILL.
SLOW DOWN, TORRES.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
AND TELL ME WHAT
THE PHASE AMPLITUDE
OF THE VISUAL LINK
WITH THE ROMULAN SHIP--
JUST A FEW MEGAHERTZ
IT'S WITHIN
TRANSPORTER PROTOCOLS.
OF MEETING
ARE YOU SUGGESTING..?
WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO PIGGY-BACK
ONTO THE VISUAL LINK.
A TRANSPORTER BEAM
CREW BACK TO THE ALPHA QUADRANT.
WE COULD TRANSPORT THE ENTIRE
THE MATTER TRANSMISSION RATE
YOU'LL HAVE TO RECONFIGURE
FAIRLY SUBSTANTIALLY.
WHATEVER WE TRY TO BEAM OUT.
AND WE RISK LOSING
A SERIES OF TESTS FIRST.
WE'LL HAVE TO RUN
SEE TO IT, LIEUTENANT.
I'LL NEED SOME HELP.
YOU HAVE MY AUTHORIZATION
TO USE ANY OF THE SHIP'S
PERSONNEL YOU NEED.
AND DON'T WORRY ABOUT SECRECY.
THIS IS TOP PRIORITY.
KEEP THIS QUIET FOR VERY LONG.
I DOUBT YOU'LL BE ABLE TO
AND I'M READY FOR MORE.
I FINISHED THESE,
YOU FINISHED THOSE ALREADY?
I ENJOYED STUDYING ANATOMY.
TO SEE AN AUTOPSY SOMETIME.
IT WOULD BE INTERESTING
WHAT ARE THE BONES
OF THE MIDDLE EAR?
MALLEUS, INCUS AND STAPES.
AND THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE
BETWEEN THE MIDDLE
AND THE EXTERNAL
AUDITORY CANAL?
THE TYMPANIC MEMBRANE.
HMM, I SUSPECT YOU HAVE
AN EIDETIC MEMORY--
AN ASTONISHING GIFT.
I'LL DO A FULL NEURAL SCAN
ON YOU AT SOME POINT.
I'VE BEEN THINKING...
TO FEDERATION SPACE
IF WE DO GET BACK
I'D LIKE TO EXPLORE
THE POSSIBILITY
OF GOING TO MEDICAL SCHOOL.
IF YOU CONTINUE TO APPLY
YOURSELF AS YOU HAVE,
BY THE TIME WE GET BACK,
EQUIVALENT OF A MEDICAL DEGREE.
YOU MAY ALREADY HAVE THE
THEN YOU HAVEN'T HEARD?
HEARD WHAT?
THAT WE MIGHT BE GETTING
BACK SOON.
IF THERE'S ONE THING
YOU CAN COUNT ON
IT'S THAT I AM THE LAST
TO BE TOLD
ABOUT ANYTHING THAT HAPPENS
ON THIS SHIP.
EVERYONE'S TALKING ABOUT IT.
TO TRANSPORT ALL OF US
THERE MAY BE A WAY
TO THE ALPHA QUADRANT.
AND HALF OF ENGINEERING
CHIEF TORRES
ARE WORKING ON IT
RIGHT NOW.
I SEE.
WELL, I'LL SAY GOOD-BYE NOW.
I WON'T BE TRANSPORTING
WITH THE REST OF YOU.
PROGRAM AND TAKE YOU WITH US?
BUT CAN'T WE DOWNLOAD YOUR
MY PROGRAM IS FULLY INTEGRATED
INTO THE SICK BAY SYSTEM.
I CANNOT BE DOWNLOADED.
AT PRESENT,
FOR EVERYTHING.
THANK YOU
WAIT. I'D LIKE...
THAT IS..
COULD I ASK A FAVOR OF YOU?
ANYTHING.
IF YOU DO LEAVE,
BEFORE YOU GO
WOULD YOU CHECK TO MAKE SURE
I'VE BEEN DEACTIVATED?
I PROMISE.
OUR CHIEF ENGINEER HAS MANAGED
TO BIND A TRANSPORTER BEAM
TO THE VISUAL LINK
BETWEEN US.
your data transmission
Then you've matched
to the phase amplitude
of our com signal?
EXACTLY.
our intelligence operatives
Apparently
are not doing their job.
You clearly have technology
that we are unaware of.
an incredible breakthrough
This would be
in subspace field mechanics.
WE'D LIKE TO TRY TRANSMITTING
IF IT'S SUCCESSFUL,
A TEST CYLINDER TO YOU.
A test cylinder of what sort?
STARFLEET MECHANISM
IT IS A STANDARD
MOLECULAR MATRIX.
WITH A VARIETAL
IT SIMULATES MOST KNOWN ORGANIC
AND NON-ORGANIC COMPOUNDS.
CLASSIFIED TECHNOLOGY.
IT IS NOT
of this mechanism.
Ah, I am aware
We use a similar device.
I will allow the transport.
BRIDGE TO TRANSPORTER ROOM 1.
Janeway:
Torres here.
WE'RE ALL SET, CAPTAIN.
THE LOCK IS ACTIVE
AND WE'RE FOCUSED
ON THE ROMULANS'
transporter coordinates.
ALL RIGHT, THEN.
LET'S GIVE IT A TRY.
ENERGIZE.
DEMATERIALIZED, CAPTAIN.
THE CYLINDER HAS
CAN YOU GET IT BACK?
The pattern buffer
IS HAVING TROUBLE ACCEPTING
THE MATTER STREAM.
I'll increase power to the phase
transmission coils.
TO 37 MEGAJOULES.
RAMP THE COILS
37 MEGAJOULES.
Congratulations, Captain.
You've done it.
Very impressive.
THESE TESTS JUST TO MAKE SURE.
WE SHOULD RUN A SERIES OF
BEFORE THE PROBE IS CRUSHED.
BUT WE HAVE TO ACT QUICKLY
I understand.
EVENTUALLY WE'LL HAVE TO TRY
TRANSPORTING A PERSON.
WILL BEAM TO YOUR SHIP
ONE OF OUR CREW
IF YOU'LL ALLOW IT.
I can't permit that, Captain.
I'm afraid
My government would never allow
Starfleet personnel
on this ship.
I wouldn't want my logs
to show that activity.
THEN WHAT WOULD YOU SUGGEST?
to your ship... and back again.
I'll volunteer to transport
BUT, CAPTAIN, IF WE CAN'T
TRANSPORT TO YOUR SHIP,
HOW ARE WE TO GET BACK?
If the procedure is successful
I'll arrange for a troop ship
to join me.
That would easily accommodate
your crew.
VERY WELL.
WE'LL BE IN TOUCH.
KIM AND TORRES HAVE MADE
MORE THAN 20 TRANSPORTS
OF THE TEST CYLINDER.
EVEN THOUGH SHE'S STILL
HAVING TROUBLE
WITH THAT PHASE VARIANCE,
EVERY ONE OF THEM HAS
BEEN SUCCESSFUL.
LET'S HOPE IT GOES AS WELL
WITH THE ROMULAN.
CAPTAIN, I MUST INSIST I STAY
WITH HIM AT ALL TIMES.
WHILE HE'S ONBOARD.
AGREED.
WHENEVER YOU'RE READY, CAPTAIN.
WE'RE LOCKED ON TO HIM.
WELL, LET'S TRY IT.
ENERGIZE...
WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?
IT'S THE PHASE VARIANCE
IN THE RADIATION STREAM.
I'M BALANCING IT MANUALLY.
WELCOME TO THE DELTA QUADRANT...
CAPTAIN.
MY FIRST OFFICER,
COMMANDER CHAKOTAY
LIEUTENANT TUVOK,
HEAD OF SECURITY
CHIEF ENGINEER TORRES...
AND OPERATIONS OFFICER KIM.
MY CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR
REMARKABLE ACCOMPLISHMENT.
THIS IS AN ASTONISHING
BREAKTHROUGH.
THINK YOU WERE GOING TO MAKE IT.
FOR A WHILE THERE I DIDN'T
THERE WAS A STRANGE
PHASE VARIANCE
IN THE RADIATION STREAM.
FROM PULLING YOU THROUGH.
IT ALMOST KEPT US
MR. TUVOK, YOU MAY BEGIN
EVACUATION PROCEDURES.
I SUGGEST WE DELAY THAT
FOR THE MOMENT, CAPTAIN.
FOR THE UNUSUAL PHASE VARIANCE.
I'M AFRAID I FOUND THE REASON
WHAT IS IT?
CAPTAIN, WHAT YEAR IS IT?
WHAT YEAR?
IF YOU PLEASE.
BY YOUR CALENDAR,
THE YEAR IS 2351.
BUT... THIS IS 2371.
EXACTLY. OUR ROMULAN VISITOR
IS A PERSON OUT OF TIME.
HE'S SHOWING CLEAR EVIDENCE
OF TEMPORAL DISPLACEMENT.
THAT THE WORMHOLE IS A RIFT,
I WOULD SURMISE
NOT JUST IN SPACE,
BUT IN TIME.
THE UNUSUAL PHASE VARIANCE
WE DETECTED
WAS ACTUALLY AN INDICATION
OF A TEMPORAL SHIFT.
FROM 20 YEARS IN THE PAST
WE HAVE TRANSPORTED HIM
TO OUR PRESENT.
I'VE GONE OVER AND OVER
THE TRANSPORTER LOGS.
IF WE TRY TO TRANSPORT OURSELVES
THERE IS NO QUESTION THAT
THROUGH THAT WORMHOLE
WE'LL END UP 20 YEARS
IN THE PAST.
THEN LET'S DO IT.
IT'S BETTER THAN SPENDING
TRYING TO GET BACK.
THE NEXT 70 YEARS
HOW CAN WE DO THAT?
Paris:
WHEN YOU WERE ONLY 2 YEARS OLD.
WE'D BE GOING BACK TO A TIME
DISAPPOINTED, HARRY.
I KNOW YOU'RE
WE ALL ARE.
IT SEEMED WE WERE SO CLOSE...
BUT CLEARLY WE CAN'T GO BACK.
IT WOULD POLLUTE THE TIMELINE
TO SUCH AN EXTENT
THAT THE CONSEQUENCES
WOULD BE UNIMAGINABLE.
I'M AFRAID WE'LL HAVE
TO SEND YOU BACK ALONE
NOT REVEAL ANYTHING
AND ASK THAT YOU
THAT HAS HAPPENED HERE.
I CAN ASSURE YOU, CAPTAIN,
THAT I WOULD NOT DO
CONTAMINATE THE FUTURE
ANYTHING THAT MIGHT
THE ROMULAN EMPIRE.
AND PERHAPS HARM
BUT...
IN 20 YEARS...
I COULD ALERT STARFLEET
NOT TO LAUNCH
WHICH SENT YOU HERE.
THE MISSION
THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE EITHER.
I'M AFRAID
WE'VE ALREADY HAD A HUGE IMPACT
ON THIS QUADRANT.
PEOPLE AND EVENTS HERE
WOULD BE DRASTICALLY
AFFECTED.
WITH OUR ORIGINAL REQUEST.
I'M AFRAID WE'RE LEFT
IN 20 YEARS...
WOULD YOU RELAY OUR PERSONAL
MESSAGES TO STARFLEET?
OF COURSE.
I WILL TRANSMIT THEM.
AT THE PROPER TIME,
IF YOU SHOULD FIND A WAY BACK
WITHIN MY LIFETIME...
I'D BE AN OLD MAN
BUT I WOULD WELCOME
A MESSAGE FROM YOU.
I AM TELEK R'MOR OF THE ROMULAN
ASTROPHYSICAL ACADEMY.
I PROMISE YOU'LL HEAR FROM US...
BECAUSE WE WILL GET BACK.
THESE ARE OUR MESSAGES.
I WISH YOU LUCK ON YOUR JOURNEY.
AND I THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP.
ENERGIZE.
IN THE PATTERN BUFFER.
HIS SIGNAL'S
TO THE EMITTER ARRAY.
TRANSFERRING
IS OUT OF SYNC AGAIN.
PHASE VARIANCE
COMPENSATING.
TRANSPORT COMPLETE, CAPTAIN.
HE MADE IT.
I'LL TELL THE CREW.
THE SATISFACTION OF KNOWING
THEY CAN HAVE
HAVE REACHED THEIR FAMILIES.
THAT THEIR MESSAGES
CAPTAIN.
Tuvok:
UNTIL AFTER OUR GUEST HAD LEFT.
I DID NOT WANT TO MENTION THIS
THE COMPUTER DATABANKS
I CHECKED
FOR A ROMULAN SCIENTIST
NAMED TELEK R'MOR.
AND?
I'M SORRY TO REPORT
DR. R'MOR DIED IN 2367.
THAT WAS FOUR YEARS AGO.
( softly ):
THAT IS CORRECT.
BEFORE HE WOULD HAVE SENT
OUR MESSAGES.
MAYBE HE LEFT A WILL
TO TRANSMIT THE MESSAGES
TELLING SOMEONE ELSE
OR HE COULD HAVE GIVEN
OUR COMPUTER CHIP
TO THE ROMULAN GOVERNMENT.
IT IS POSSIBLE.
THERE IS NO WAY TO KNOW.
UNFORTUNATELY,
THEN LET'S MOVE ON.
WE'VE GOT A LONG WAY TO GO.
HAMSTRING EXERCISE.
I TRIED A NEW
MAYBE I OVERDID IT
BUT MY WORKOUTS ARE ABOUT
ALL THAT STAND BETWEEN ME
AND A SEVERE CASE
OF CABIN FEVER
MEDICAL OFFICER OF THIS SHIP.
LIEUTENANT, I AM THE CHIEF
IF YOU HAVE SOMETHING
TO SAY TO ME
THE STATEMENT TO ME.
PLEASE DIRECT
WELL...
YOU SEE, I NEED TO WORK OUT.
I'M NOT TELLING YOU
NOT TO WORK OUT.
I'M SUGGESTING YOU USE A MODICUM
OF COMMON SENSE WHEN YOU DO IT.
FOR AN EXERCISE-RELATED INJURY
IF I SEE YOU IN HERE AGAIN
I'LL HAVE TO DISCUSS THE MATTER
WITH YOUR SUPERIOR OFFICER.
YES... SIR.
YOU'RE FINE NOW.
YOU MAY LEAVE.
YES, SIR.
THANK YOU, SIR.
HE'LL MAKE THE MISTAKE
I DON'T THINK
OF IGNORING YOU AGAIN.
CAPTAIN JANEWAY HAS MADE ME
REALIZE THAT I MUST FUNCTION
AS MORE THAN AN EMERGENCY
MEDICAL REPLACEMENT.
AS A... MEMBER OF THE CREW.
I MUST THINK OF MYSELF
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
A LIST OF THINGS
I'VE PREPARED
ADDED TO SICK BAY.
I'D LIKE TO SEE
PRESENT IT TO THE CAPTAIN?
PERHAPS YOU COULD
I'D BE HAPPY TO.
THERE'S ONE MORE REQUEST.
SOMETHING OF A...
A PERSONAL NATURE.
I WOULD LIKE...
A NAME.